in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of devops
technologies now many of us have heard
of devops we've heard of continuous
integration continuous delivery
continuous deployment
get and get repositories and it's
important to understand devops is really
a process it's an approach and then yes
there are some specific tooling but
devops is not just a piece of software
it really is about the overall approach
and the process and how people think
about approaching a project but
definitely there are tools that we're
going to leverage
now azure devops
was really the original
microsoft
devops tooling set
and it comprises of a number of
different components a big one is repos
so a repository
is where we actually store
our code now a big part of this is
obviously things like version control
now what really we focus on today is
using git
so git is an open source solution for
version control
but what we actually had initially was
this team foundation version control so
yes that is still there
it's there really for legacy reasons
it's really not something we're going to
use so the whole point of repos is that
ability for the team
to all have a local copy of the code
and then it
synchronizes
with this central hosted version
then we have things like boards so board
is about that project management
tracking the work items tracking the
features the epics that we're working on
you'll hear the term kanban boards for
how we might actually organize the work
we're doing and the key point of devops
is continuous small incremental pieces
of business value
and we want to be able to move some
aspect of the work between stages so we
can make sure we're always making
progress make sure we don't bottleneck
and evaluate what is that end-to-end
process for us
so azure devops has boards and if we
jump over and look quickly
i've got a little board i use to track
the videos i create so this is the
kanban board you can see we break it up
into different stages and here i can
configure
all the different columns for example i
have in my board so i've got backlog
researching drafting you can have swim
lanes swim lanes for example are
different lanes of work so i have a high
priority swim lane
regular and then fun fridays i can set
things like work in progress limits so
you'll have the idea of whip limits and
the whole point of a whip limit is i
want to minimize
getting too many things in any
particular stage
because that could then cause me a
problem
so i have this very rich set of
capabilities
actually with boards and this lets me
have things like hey i'm looking at
stories right now but there could be
features as well that i have defined
as part of things i'm working on
and additionally i could just actually
go and look at my work items backlogs i
could do sprints all of those things are
manageable
actually through this so it has very
rich and powerful board capabilities
this is one of the highlights of azure
devops is that board's capabilities
then also it has pipelines
so if you think about devops
you have the idea of continuous
integration that's the idea that yes
people are working locally on their
piece of the code and what we want to do
is constantly bring it back together to
test it make sure something's not broken
if it is broken find it early and find
it often so continuous integration is
about taking the code that's constantly
being checked in to our repo
and automatically testing it
making sure it's still good
and then we have things like continuous
delivery which is building it testing
the solution maybe running it through
certain environments and then maybe also
continuous deployment
actually pushing it out to environments
in some controlled process
and this is very rich functionality as
well
it has great gate capabilities so based
on certain scenarios before i get to a
certain step or after we must meet these
certain conditions
it has the idea of agents that can run
in the cloud that can run on premises so
i have a lot of control over that
we have the idea of artifacts
artifact is some compiled image that i
want to use somewhere
and this is a very mature solution
but
it's really not getting a huge amount of
future investment and the reason for
that
is another big solution in the space
is github
github was really the solution
for open source
and its real power is repos
this is its bread and butter and it is
only using git for that version control
it's very much as the name suggests
github
is focused around git
this has amazing functionality around
the repositories has great security
solutions great artificial intelligence
to go and look for hey i have this
quality of code it actually translate
code into data
to then run checks to say maybe i've got
some security issue in my code i can
find hey i've got keys embedded in my
code as i check that into my repository
so this is its starring feature
but it also has something called github
actions
now actions will be similar to pipelines
but while pipelines and azure devops was
only around ci cd
actions is really
anything almost anything can trigger
actions it could be um someone issues a
pull request hey i want you to take my
code and bring it into your project
someone joins as part of a community so
almost anything can actually trigger
action so yes
i can do cicd
but it's also
much more it's not limited
to cicd
and it does now have the concept of
environments
and what's nice about environments is
although it doesn't have gates as part
of my actions as part of an environment
i can set a condition hey before it
comes to this environment this must be
met which is actually in a way more
logical than putting gates between
different steps as part of an actual
pipeline
it also has things like projects
so there is a basic concept of like a
kanban board it doesn't have all the
same functionality today however
this is where all the investment is
all of the future development is really
focused about adding functionality so i
think git up will catch up to azure
devops and actually exceed it so if we
go and look
if i jump over i have a github
repository here obviously it's fantastic
for the code
but then we have the idea of actions
so i've got a whole bunch of different
things i created here but i've got
different environment workflows and you
can see it's just a whole set of steps
but i'm using various different
environments in here
and what we can actually do as part of
this
if i go ahead
and so this is my
particular
repository
you could actually go if i was signed in
and then define those environments
and actually set those gates within it
and then you can have things like
projects
hey i could actually have project
for the planning and once again you can
see hey i have that idea of the board
that i can move things between and
actually leverage it
so when i think of devops there are two
solutions today
azure devops if i'm using existing great
carry on using it it can actually
integrate with github so i might
definitely consider moving my code from
the repo in devops to github but maybe
still use the pipelines and the boards
of azure devops if i was starting fresh
i'd probably just try and use github
now the last kind of solution is often i
want to do some testing on maybe
different types of devices different
environments
and although i can do things with
pipelines to deploy a template and maybe
later on tear it down
there's actually a dedicated service so
we actually have azure
dev
test
labs
and as the name suggests this is a means
of building
setting up the environment and tearing
it down
so i can test various builds of my
software so developers and testers can
test across a huge range of different
environments
and basically anything that i can
provision with an arm template which is
pretty much any azure resource
i can provision with this and then
i can delete it
so i can think about creating
using anything i can define we talk
about vms but it's not limited to vms
then i would do some testing
in between
and then
it will delete it it's all about
optimizing my cost so it's only there
when i actually need it to be there so i
think about devops there are a number of
different solutions
these are not really azure azure devops
is a poor name it's not really an azure
service
github i guess this is the only azure
part that is designed about deploying
things into azure but those are the
services